sudo apt update -> it collects all updated files.
sudo apt upgrade -> it collects all the updated files and upgrade it.
sudo apt full-upgrade -> it collects all the updated files and upgrade it and removes unaccessary files aswell.

sudo apt install [package_name]

sudo apt remove [package_name] -> removes package with all dependencies
Dpkg is a low-level package management system, while apt is a higher-level package manager for Debian-based Linux distributions.
Dpkg is used to install, configure, upgrade, and remove packages, 
while apt is used to install, maintain, and upgrade packages, including their dependencies. 


ping -c 5 google.com //pings or sends 5 packets to google.com


Ping :- 

PING (Packet Internet Groper) command is used to check the network connectivity between host and server/host. 

--->This command takes as input the IP address or the URL and sends a data packet to the specified  

address with the message “PING” and get a response from the server/host this time is recorded which is called latency.  

---->Fast ping low latency means faster connection. Ping uses ICMP(Internet Control Message Protocol) to send an ICMP echo message to the specified host if that host is available then it sends ICMP reply message. 

----> Ping is generally measured in millisecond every modern operating system has this ping pre-installed 

 

here rtt ---> round trip time 

ping 0: It is one of the quickest option to ping a localhost. 

The terminal will resolve determine the IP address and gives a response once we enter this command. 

ping localhost: We can use the ping localhost name. 

This name will refer to our system and when we enter this command, we will say "ping this system". 

ping -c ----> specifies the number of ICMP echo requests to send to the target host before stopping 

the ping process. ex:- ping -c 5 google.com will send 5 ICMP requests and then stop 

 

this time we don't need to mannualy cancel the requests (crtl+c) it automatically 

stopped after 4 requests  

ping -s ----->  specifies the size of the ICMP echo request packet in bytes 

. For example, ping -s 100 google.com will send an ICMP echo request packet of 100 bytes to google.com. default is 56 bytes 

 

ping -i -----> This option sets the time interval between sending packets. By default 

, it's set to one second. For example, the following command will send packets every 

five seconds 

ping -i 5 google.com 

ping -t ------> This option sets the Time-to-Live (TTL) value of the packet, which 

determines the number of network hops that the packet can take before being discarded. By default, the TTL value is set to 64. For example, the following command will set the TTL value to 128:   ex:-  ping -t 128 google.com 



5 Ways to Traceroute - wikiHowTraceroute is a command-line tool that shows the path a packet takes from a source to a destination on an internet network. It's used to identify routing loops, response delays, and points of failure in a network. 
